# Analysis

 In this part of the Attention project, I will describe two attention heads and their identified relationship between words based on the attention diagrams generated by the BERT model.
 
## Layer 1 Head 3

Layer 1 Head 3 appears to be particularly sensitive to the relationship between the verbs and the determiners of the sentence. For example, in the sentence 'She opened the book.', if the word 'opened' is replaced by [MASK], the attention head focuses on the relationship between 'the' which is the determiner, and the [MASK] which represents the verb within the sentence.

Example Sentences:
- "They [MASK] the delicious cake."

Similarly to the first sentence, the attention head is consistently aligning high attention scores to the relationship between the verb and the determiner in the sentence. This can be seen .

- "The cat [MASK] the mouse."

Similarly to the precious sentence, the attention head assigns high attention scores to the relationship between the determiner and the verb of the sentence, as it correctly associates "the" with the [MASK] in the sentence.

## Layer 6, Head 10

Layer 6 Head 10 seems to focus on capturing the relationships between nouns and their determiners. It's focus is to ensure that the determiner in a sentence corresponds correctly to the subsequent noun that is the direct object of the action, which can be seen in the sentence "[MASK] chef skillfully prepared the delicious meal", where the program correctly inserts "the" into the place of the mask.

Example Sentences:
- "[MASK] scientist discovered a new species in the dense rainforest."

The attention head pays attention to the relationship between the determiner and the noun. High attention is assigned to the [MASK] and the "scientist", ensuring that the determiner fits coherently with the direct object.

- [MASK] painter passionately painted a vibrant masterpiece on the canvas.

In the above sentence, the attention head continuously ensures that there is a strong relationship between the noun and the determiner. A simliar pattern is observed from the sentences before, since it correctly connects "the" with the painter.

